Documentation for main simulation flow (#195)
ImperialCollegeLondon/virtual_rainforest: docs/source/virtual_rainforest/main_simulation.md

# Virtual Rainforest simulation flow

This document describes the main simulation flow of the Virtual Rainforest model. This
flow will now be set out step by step.

## Loading configuration files

As a first step, configuration files are loaded in and validated. These files are of
`toml` format and are found based on paths provided by the user. When these files are

> loaded in they are validated to ensure that they are valid `toml`, and that no tags are
> repeated. In cases where a required tag is not present in any file, the validation will
> fail unless a default value for it has been set. Further details can be found in the

Reviewer: Unclear what tags are and where defaults come from:
```suggestion
loaded in they are validated to ensure that they are valid `toml`, and that all the 
required settings are present and not duplicated. The Virtual Rainforest code
provides default settings for some configuration options and these will be used 
automatically if that setting is not found in the configuration, but if no default is
set then the validation will fail. Further details can be found in the
```

[configuration documentation](./core/config.md).

## Grid creation

> The next step is creating a grid, which defines the area and resolution of the
> simulation. The [grid documentation](./core/grid.md) describes this object further. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step is creating a grid, which defines the spatial structure of the simulation: 
the area, coordinate system and geometry of the individual cells that will be used in the 
simulation. The [grid documentation](./core/grid.md) describes this object further. This
```

grid is then used to create an empty `Data` object of the correct size to describe the
simulation.

## Loading and validation of input data

This `Data` object now needs to be populated with data. The data used in the simulation

> is stored in a set of data files which are specified in the configuration. This data

Reviewer: This will change, I think. I think `Grid` should be part of a `Config` object, and `Data` should just be data. But that's for a future PR.

is then loaded using the `data.load_data_config` method, which has built in validation

> procedures to ensure that the loaded data can be mapped onto the grid. Further details
> can be found in the [data system](./core/data.md) and [core axes](./core/axes.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
procedures to ensure that the loaded data can be mapped onto the spatial grid and also
other core dimensions for the configured simulation. Further details
can be found in the [data system](./core/data.md) and [core axes](./core/axes.md)
```

documentation.

> ## Configuration of specific modules
> 
> The models used for the specific simulation run can be set in the configuration. This
> will generally be the four standard modules (`abiotic`, `animals`, `plants` and `soil`),
> but it is also useful to have the ability to run novel modules or different combinations
> of the modules. Once a list of modules to configure has been extracted from the
> configuration, they are then all configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configuration of specific models

The Virtual Rainforest is implemented as model objects, each of which is responsible for simulating
a particular aspect of the rainforest ecosystem and the models used for a specific simulation run
can be set in the configuration. This will typically be the four standard models
(`AbioticModel`, `AnimalModel`, `PlantModel` and `SoilModel`),
but this can be extended to include new models or different combinations
of models. Once a list of models to configure has been extracted from the
configuration, they are then all configured.
```

Reviewer: And maybe also link to the new model docs. "For more information about implementing new models, see this page about the required module structure and the model API."
